Cord memory systems are a cheat code,
but only if you use them properly. And
in this video, I'm going to show you
exactly how to set up your own second AI
brain that works across all apps with an
incredibly simple setup. So, you can
have a memory operating system that
makes you 10 times more productive and
stops wasting your time. And if you
don't know who I am, my name is Jack
Roberts. I built and sold my last tech
startup with the gazillion customers.
Now I build my own AI businesses and I
just share the stuff that actually
works. So if you haven't already, grab
that beautiful coffee and let's dive
straight in. So this is the Claude
memory system and I've spent over a year
looking at memory systems and I've done
a lot of research. This is the simplest
one that I've actually found. So when we
talk about the Claude code memory
system, what do I actually mean? What
does great look like? Let's define what
that is before we think about what we're
going to build. Well, the first thing
that a great memory system does is it
remembers everything that you say,
right? Not just last 10 messages, not
just the thread, every meaningful
exchange that you've ever had with it.
It remembers it and we can capture and
refer to it whenever we want to, just
like this beautiful filing cabinet here.
So, the first goal is it needs to
remember what we've said. The second
thing is that we can change the the
important stuff on the fly, right? Maybe
we don't want to focus on strategy A
anymore. We want to focus on strategy B.
Maybe your income's gone up and you want
to change and reflect that strategy. So
we need the ability to change the
important stuff with your role, your
stack, whatever it is. We want to be
able to disregard old information. The
third thing that it needs to do, it
needs to plug into every platform. This
is what I call information silos. It's
very common AI chatpt for this, Claude
for that, maybe your grandmother's
basement for something completely
different. We don't want to be hip and
hopping. We need a central memory system
which is the universal point of truth.
We call it the memory core in this
system. Fourthly, and finally, it needs
to fuel every answer with context. What
is the point of this memory system if we
can't ask it questions about stuff
that's happened? And we can't get
contextrich information when we ask it
things about strategy. We have a prompt.
We have our three tier threelevel memory
system. Then we get the output. That is
the basic idea. Memory is not a vault.
It's an import. Every prompt silently
pulls from your stack, who you are, what
you're shipping, what you decided last
month. So, the response lands sharper
than any fresh chat could ever hope to
do. Now, how many times have you spoken
with Claude or Chat GBT to get halfway
through the conversation and it's
talking complete Spanish? And it's
because it has amnesia. Now, the best
way to solve for this is to think about
your memory system as solving this
across three levels. Okay? We have
short-term memory, which is very simply,
who am I? We have mid-term memory, which
is what am I doing? And then we have
long-term memory, which is what's
happened before, and an expert knowledge
base. I'll explain exactly what I mean.
All right. Now, not to get metaphysical,
but the first question you have to ask
yourself is who am I? And I'm not
talking about glass of red wine at 4:00
a.m. in the morning. I mean, does your
model actually know who you are? We call
this the operating manual. And it's the
very first level, the very first tier of
our threelevel memory system. So, think
about it like this. Who am I? It's your
name, your role, your current goals, the
way you like your answers framed, the
tools you use, tone, voice,
non-negotiables, stuff that does not
change every week, but defines every
reply. So, here's me for example. My
name's Jack Roberts, AI YouTuber, direct
fluff, m dashes, emojis, vibe is the
cheat code if I'm talking about this
particular presentation. Now, the idea
of this is that it lives natively in
every single platform and it grows as
you talk. So the idea with claude for
example has its own internal memory
system which gets better over time and
when you express preferences or ask it
things it records that for you. So as
you're actually talking to them and you
say hey remember this or I prefer xz
Claude will actually remember that stuff
for you. But one little hack I want to
show you really quickly. So first
actionable step go on Claude if you're
coding Claude come to the bottom left
under Jack Roberts click on obviously
yours may not say Jack Roberts unless we
got the same name I don't know. Come up
to general and what you're looking for
here is instructions for Claude. Put
some stuff in here. Try to make it no
more than 200 words maximum. Just top
level stuff of how you want claw to
behave and any key information about
you. Okay. Then if you're in
anti-gravity for example, all you do is
click on the additional options and you
click on customization. This will be the
same in VS Code and various other forks
and you'll see you have global and you
have workspace. You click on global and
these are going to be gemini.mmd which
are the global instructions for how
these models basically behave with you.
Now what's important to bear in mind
here is that there's two bits of memory.
One is the explicit hardcode stuff and
then we have the generalized knowledge
it has of you which it will natively
pick up based on your conversations. So
this is important thing to understand
with these memory systems is that the
outcome of the conversation should never
ever depend on a chat history. I should
be able with this system and you can
with this system it's why it's so cool
open new chat window and regardless of
any previous message it should always
give me the best advice possible. But
think of this level one as your general
topfunnel memory that identifies who you
are. It's important to bear in mind that
models forget things. They get
truncated. They hallucinate. If it
matters, we need to make sure we're
writing it down. Okay. So, real quick,
what are you doing? Well, not right now.
I mean, you and I are hanging out
together, but I mean, what are you
working on right now? Because this is
the second level of a three- tier
system. It's the projects you're doing.
They may change from time to time. Maybe
you're building a startup. Maybe you've
got a really cool client or several cool
clients. These are the things that
you'll be doing right now. And that
forms the second level of our system.
And that's why in this second level,
it's actually quite structural. So what
we're going to do essentially is create
six or seven separate folders for all
the things that we're doing. So for
example, I might have one for my
community. I might have one for my
agency. I might have one for my startup.
And or you know, one might be personal
life and health and fitness and getting
like in shape and all that kind of
stuff. So what you need to do first of
all is head over to Claude or this could
be your model of choice. I need to ask
you this question. Hey, based on
everything that you know about me, all
of our conversation, all of our chat
history and projects, I want you to
organize all the areas of my life and
business into six to eight different
categories. It summize everything that
I'm doing. I'm using this to build up
folders to best organize my life and my
business. And once you've got that, you
can basically create it. And it is
surprisingly accurate, but you don't
want any more than eight, otherwise it's
way too much to manage. Now what we're
going to do based on those eight things
if we come down to shivers workshop and
what we're effectively doing is creating
one unique claude.md file for each of
those eight projects. You could do it
based on clients but again try to keep
it under eight. All right. So we've got
the claw.md at the root that tells
claude what the project is. The memory
folder beside it stores everything that
evolves the decisions the strategies the
summaries the next actions you can open
up in any platform and it just works.
And what I've done for you as well, I've
pulled together this project operating
manual that you can just literally copy
and paste. And what I want you to do
based on those eight things is come down
and essentially create this per project.
So this is opens a folder. So what
happens here is that claude will open
this up before it touches any of your
code. So it sits as a living medium-term
memory that can change based on what
you're working on at the moment. It's
the midterm layer of our threelevel
memory system. Okay. So what's included
in this folder? We need to explain what
the folder is, what the goal is, why
does it exist. This exists to get me 10%
body fat. This exists to make me $X,000.
This exists to help my client at XYZ.
The stack, what are you building it
with? Decisions you've already made.
Okay, so calls already made so we don't
need to relitigate them. It needs to
have a memory map about where each
individual memory lives and any
references that are relevant. Okay. Now,
the template is simply this. I'll let
you basically copy and paste this, but
essentially fill this out for
everything. Okay. And here's an example
of what that might look like based on
everything you're doing. Now, we want to
keep it under 200 lines because this is
your MD. Effectively, what this will do
is be pre-filled into every single
conversation. So, we don't want it to be
too big. It needs to be updated, needs
to be accurate, and it's one folder per
repo. So, ask all the questions, copy
this into these six folders, and then
fill it out. Now, if you are in claw
desktop app, what you can do in co-work,
if you're using coowork, is literally
use what I would call the projects tab.
So, you click on projects. This is their
version of that. Okay, these can be your
six or seven different versions.
Awesome. Now, if you're in code, again,
I'd recommend code honestly because it
does everything that co-work does, but
like it better and unlimited and it's
essentially the same thing that in code,
all you would do is effectively create
these six or seven folders on your
desktop. And when you open this up, you
can see all the folders on the left hand
side. And it's the exact same thing in
anti-gravity. You can have all the
folders basically. And all you do ever
do is you open it up and you open up the
folder that you want to chat in based on
the conversations that you're having.
And so the idea here is that whenever
you do work, all you do is you think
about which of the seven things is it
about it's about my business. Cool. When
I click on business, it's about growing
my LinkedIn. Then I click on LinkedIn.
And effectively, you do all your work
inside that project for that specific
thing. It has the living mid-term
strategy that may change. It is what we
call mutable. It might it is subject to
change. and we do all the work in those
seven project folders based on the
things that you want to do. And the
third level is probably one of the most
important which is it's long-term
memory. And most people I've seen either
drastically over complicate it or don't
set it up properly, meaning they get
none of the benefits but all the
complexity. So level three is the
arcade. It basically answers the
question, what happened before? What the
hell happened before this? So let's get
into a little bit detail. Now to do
this, we're going to use one of two
systems. Option one is going to be
something called Pine Cone, which
effectively is a big database. This
looks really technical. You're probably
thinking, Jag, this is way out of
control. In reality, they're just five
mystical bookshelves, which are very,
very cool. In reality, what it looks
like is you can ask questions to things
like this and ajag.com. All of my
YouTube videos, any content I ever
create is indexed into this beautiful
thing in Pine Cone. It is unbelievably
easy to set up. And the other
alternative we have is, you might have
guessed it, something called Obsidian.
And obsidian itself has gained a lot of
virality especially a new system what we
call karpathy obsidian which was
considered an alternative to what we use
in pine cone which is retrieval
augmented generation. Now the idea of
this is that it tracks all of the text
for any topic you want to. You can amend
it. Claude has access to all of it in
these markdown files which is really
cool. And it understands basically
everything. And the more that you
basically use this um the better the
system gets because it finds cross
linkages between everything. So this one
here is a for you can see this is an
example one I have on YouTube and you
can see the relationships between each
of the individual things. I know you're
thinking Jack graphs are great but will
graphs solve all my problems? Um the
answer to that question is yes they
will. No they won't. Of course they
won't. But yeah this is the idea of
obsidian basically. And obviously you
can do little funny things with it which
is like half the fun is moving these
sliders up and down basically. But this
is what they call Kopathi Obsidian,
which is his alternative to a complex
rag system. Now, this isn't a right or
wrong. You can pick either one of these
two systems that you like. Let me help
you make an informed decision if I may.
So, if you look at Obsidian, which is
the node one that I showed you, you use
this when you want to read and edit the
memory by hand. So, if you want to
physically look at your memories, double
click in. For example, I want to click
on this. I want to see what this says. I
want to come down and read it. Then you
may want to go for something like
Obsidian. You can create strategy node,
decision frameworks, visual graphs and
backlinks are important to you and you
want zero infer, you just want the
files, Obsidian might be one for you.
And I'll put a full link on screen right
now if you want to double click and set
up Obsidian. I go through the entire
thing. Alternatively, you have Pine Cam.
If you want semantic search across
thousands of records, this is way more
scalable, can work anywhere. You can
publish it in apps. It can be accessed
from anywhere on the planet. You know,
you want to store wrap-ups on every
session. uh if it's for scale, so you
want to store long information like
books and transcripts, it is incredible
for that. In other words, if you want a
readable file, use Obsidian. If you want
to index a searchable summary, use Pine
Cone. If you're asking what I personally
use, I personally use Pine Cone just
because I don't want to read through
everything in Obsidian, but Obsidian
does really have its genuine use cases.
Now, there are two levels to long-term
memory. One is an archive of any
conversation that you've ever had. Now
the really cool thing is whether this is
include whether this is in open core
hermes or any system you're using we can
if we're using pine cone for example
send all this information to pine cone
and we can index it. So for example if I
have a big conversation with this all I
do is I create a skill I can come down
do for/ wrap-up and I have a wrap-up
skill that takes the entire conversation
and embeds it in pine cone. Now, if you
want to know how to set this this
wrap-up skill up, I'll put a link on
screen for you so you can go through my
full pine cone video that breaks down
the entire system for you, my capacity
video. And then the second level of
long-term memory here, guys, is the what
I would call knowledge, deep knowledge.
So, for example, I might want to have a
YouTube expertise database in my pine
cone, for example. And again, you can do
this with Obsidian if you like to, but
the idea is this one might be YouTube,
and this could be all the information
that I want on for growing on YouTube,
or it could be my business or whatever
it is. And then what I'm doing is when
I'm there having conversations, your AI
agent or your AI conversation can call
and reach over and conversate with this
knowledge base when it's relevant. And
so in the project folder section that we
covered in section two, what you might
say and which is where it all
interconnects together. Okay, so let's
say for example that one of my folders
is Glider, right? Glider is the speech
of tech startup that I founded lets you
yap into your computer. In the glider
folder for example in here I might say
look these are the indexes in pine cone
I want you to consult when I ask you
strategic questions this is my long-term
memory in addition to that if I ask you
for any history consult this index then
in pine cone I might have an index over
here which could be glid strategy or it
could be business strategy or hormosi or
whatever it is and it will call that
long-term memory that expert knowledge
and history to help and improve the
current conversation. Now, to actually
build out that long-term knowledge,
there's two systems we can do. One is to
connect this to notebook LM. I'll put a
link down below, but for example, I
could say something like, "Hey, go and
do some research on business strategy
according to Alex or Mosi. Go create for
me a notebook in my notebook LM and just
get me like 50 different resources, as
much as you possibly can, and create
that notebook for me." Send that
straight off. Now, what's really cool
about this is it will lally curate and
you have the power of Claudor Chat GPT
5.5 going ahead and building those
notebooks for you which is incredible.
Then we can go over grab that
information save it on our desktop and
even vectorize it into Pineco or just
like we did with Obsidian have this
beautiful thing over here which I open
up the graph view so you can see cuz
it's very shiny and we like lots of
graphs over here. Just use this. Now
this is my you know homozy business
strategy thing that I can ask questions
to. Again I'll put a link on screen for
the notebook LM deep dive if you want to
double click and learn more about that
strategy. The other one that I
absolutely love doing is firecrol. So
for example I could say something like
this. Hey I want to use my firecrawl
integration and go ahead and do some
deep research for me on horos five
practices for scaling a business past
$10,000 a month. Okay do that. Send that
one off. Of course, we can connect FC
crawl via the connectors on plus. Click
on connectors over here. You can see
I've got fire crawl installed. And all
you literally do is come over, you grab
the API key, you can come back over to
the connectors. Then what you would do
is click on the plus, click on add
custom connector, and then right here,
you just type in firecraw. And then
remote mcp server, just enter in this
right here. Where I've got API key, you
just enter your firecraw. And then
basically what that will then be able to
do is use the firecraw agent. And this
can save you like 80% of the cost. And
it's just way more efficient at getting
accurate data for agents. So what this
basically means is we have an archive of
every conversation. So every meaningful
conversation ends with a wrap-up. That
summary decisions, next actions made
metadata. The summary lands in the
archive. So if I ever say to, hey, what
was that thing we discussed about this
really important event last January,
we've got it. And when we do index it,
we have the date and we can set all
those different filters in Pine Cone or
locally on a computer if we're using
Obsidian, which is really cool. That's
the exact process we went through. Then
we covered the expert knowledge that
we've embedded. We've used firecrol to
go get some deep research. We can use
notebook LM to build beautiful,
detailed, impressive notebooks on any
topic we want to using the world's
strongest AI research bottle, which is
freaking incredible. And we can pull
that down anytime we want to in our
memory system. So we have the three
layers. We have short-term, midterm, and
long-term. Level one is who we are.
Level two is what we're doing. And level
three is everything that's happened
before. And that perfect knowledge. Now,
your memory system is only as strong as
the skills that support it. So, what we
need to do next is learn what I call
super skills that can make your memory
system even more powerful. And we're
going to learn that by watching this
video right